# Crafting a Container

Now, Create you first container based on the alpine image that you downloaded:

```bash
docker container run alpine echo "hello my first container"
```

To list all the containers you have, run:

```bash
docker container ls -a
```

- **ls**: is for listing all the running containers.
- **-a**: option is to list all the containers, whatever their statuses are.

```bash
docker container run alpine echo "hello my first container"
```

The output shows the following:

- CONTAINER ID: The unique ID that the engine autogenerated. Again, similar to the image ID, it is 64 hex digits. By default, the first 12 only will be shown for readibility. All the objects in Docker will follow this similar paradigm.
- IMAGE: Shows the base page from where this container was crafted.
- COMMAND: The initial commadn that you sent while running the container.
- CREATED: The timestamp of creating the container.
- STATUS: Shows the current status of the container. It can be running or exited as in the this example, created, running (paused). You can change the container's status to traverse the container's lifecycle using the commands

    ```bash
    docker container stop
    ```
    ```bash
    docker container pause
    ```
    ```bash
    docker container unpause
    ```
    ```bash
    docker container start
    ```
    ```bash
    docker container attach
    ```
    ```bash
    docker container start -a
    ```

- PORTS: It shows the ports that this container uses. 

- NAMES: Shows the nickname of the container. The Docker engine autogenerates a text name for the container, which you can use interchangeably with the container ID. 

   - You can set the name that you want using the `--name` option in the run subcommand, for example:
   
   ```bash
   docker container run alpine --name myfirstcontainer
   ```
   
- To clear this lab, remove the image using:

    ```bash
    docker image rm alpine
    ```

- Similarly, to remove the container run:

    ```bash
    docker container rm <ID>
    ```

    or 

    ```bash
    docker container rm <NAME>
    ```

- You can concatenate several Docker commands toger. For example, to remove all the images you have, use:

    ```bash
    docker image rm -f $(docker image ls -q)
    ```

The `-f` option is to force removing the images because if there is a container based on an image, the Docker engine, by default, will refuse to remove this image.

The `-q` option is for quiet mode. The Docker engine will execute the command in the brackets first; therefore, the output of `docker image ls -q` will be the input of `docker image rm -f`.

- To remove all the containers that are on the host, use:

    ```bash
    docker container rm -f $(docker container ls -aq)
    ```